In this video I'll explain static vs. dynamic routing at a very basic level.
I just want to give you enough knowledge to work with so that as we get into more complicated topics
like how the NSX edge and how the distributed logical router exchange routes will have these basic concepts
understood.
So in this diagram here we see around are called router 1 and router one has an interface let's call
it interface one that's connected to the 10 dot 1 1 0 network.
And so as a result because it has an interface that's directly connected to that network it's aware
of that directly connected interface and a routing table entry is automatically created say for the
10.0 one dot 1.0 network route that traffic to interface one.
So this is pretty straightforward.
Routers will automatically create a routing table entry for any directly connected networks.
But what about if we now decide to add a second router to our diagram while the second router doesn't
have the benefit of that directly connected network to 10 that 1.1 does zero.
As a matter of fact router 2 has no idea how to get to that network.
It does have a path right.
It could connect via Router one but it doesn't know what that path is until we explicitly go in there
and tell it.
So what we can do is create a static route on a router to and that will allow us to manually define
the path to get to the 10 not 1 1 0 network and this will work just fine.
Right static routes work great.
Weve been doing them for 20 plus years and they work.
Now that being said there might be a whole lot of other networks that aren't pictured here.
And it might not make a whole lot of sense for us to have to create a manual routing table entry for
every single network that exists.
And as more routers are added that's going to be more manual routing table updates and it's going to
be more networks as well and our routing tables are going to get bigger and bigger and bigger.
So what we might want to consider is deploying some sort of dynamic routing protocol and this allows
the routers to communicate amongst themselves and allows them to advertise routing table entries that
they have to neighbor routers.
So for example let's say in this scenario router 1 and router two are able to establish a neighbor relationship
neighbor relationship means we can now exchange routing table entries so rowdier one will inform a round
or two.
Here is how you get to the 10.0 1.1 0 network and after rowdier 1 and forms route to about that network
router 2 can dynamically automatically update its surrounding table and it now knows that the 10.0 1.
1.0 network is reachable via router want now it knows how to get there and we didn't have to create
any manual routing table entries to make that happen.
And then router 2 will subsequently inform its neighbors and it will tell router 3.
I know how to reach that $10.
1. 1.0 network and so router 3 will now adjust its routing table and the routing table of router 3 will
reflect the fact that we can get to this $10 one 1.0 network but router 3 is getting there through router
2 and so now my routers are beginning to kind of build a complete picture of what the network looks
like and how to get to all of these different destinations.
And its doing it on its own by using something called routing advertisements each router is going to
tell every other neighbor that it has about the entries in its routing table and if Router one has some
entry that router too was not aware of router tool take that information add it to its routing table
and dynamically build that connectivity.
So theres still a place for static routes here and there right we still have some scenarios where they
make sense but the vast majority of networks are going to use some sort of dynamic routing protocol.
And these dynamic routing protocols are going to make things happen a lot more quickly with a lot less
manual intervention.
Now the other big benefit that a dynamic routing protocol gives us is the ability to heal from failures.
So lets add one more change into this picture
let's say that router 3 also has a direct connection to Router one.
So lets add that in
well now weve got multiple routes that can be utilized.
And so for example lets say the connection between router 1 and router 2 fails.
Let's say something happens and that that connection is broken.
Well router toos routing table is now incorrect right.
It can't get to the 10 1 1 0 network via Router one because router 1 is no longer accessible through
that interface but there is another way it could send that traffic towards router 3 is an X type and
router 3 couldwell relay that traffic to Router one.
So there is an alternate path that's available to us here.
And that's one of the other major benefits of a dynamic routing table is when that network fails.
Router 2 will analyze its remaining options.
It'll determine if there's another route to that destination and it will route around that failure automatically.
And this process is referred to as convergence convergence is simply there some sort of change there
something is now different in my network and all of the routers have adjusted their routing table accordingly
and have agreed on a new typology.
That's convergence when we've successfully healed from some sort of failure or it could be something
else like we've inserted a new router and we've added new networks and now all the routers need to update
their routing tables to reflect that when they're all up to speed when everything's up to date.
Then we're said to be converged at that point and our routers are ready to go.